Document update strategy for sattelite projects (#28457)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/project/downstream-upgrade-strategy.md

---
project.description: Upgrade strategy for downstream libraries
---
# Downstream upgrade strategy

When a new Akka version is released, downstream projects (such as
[Akka Management](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-management/current/),
[Akka HTTP](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-http/current/) and
[Akka gRPC](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/))
do not need to update immediately: because of our
@ref[binary compatibility](../common/binary-compatibility-rules.md) approach,
applications can take advantage of the latest version of Akka without having to
wait for intermediate libraries to update.

## Patch versions

When releasing a new patch version of Akka (e.g. 2.5.22), we typically don't

> immediately bump the Akka version in sattelite projects.

Reviewer: satellite

The reason for this is this will make it more low-friction for users to update

> those sattelite projects: say their project is on akka 2.5.22 and

Reviewer 2: s/akka/Akka/

> akka-management 1.0.0, and we release akka-management 1.0.1 (still against

Reviewer 2: s/against/built with/ ?

Akka 2.5.22) and Akka 2.5.23. They can safely update to akka-managemenet 1.0.1

> without also updating to akka 2.5.23.

Reviewer 2: Akka

Reviewer 2: Shall we also clarify the other scenario where they can update to Akka 2.5.23 but still use akka-management 1.0.0 (or 1.0.1)?

---
project.description: Upgrade strategy for downstream libraries
---
# Downstream upgrade strategy

When a new Akka version is released, downstream projects (such as
[Akka Management](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-management/current/),
[Akka HTTP](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-http/current/) and
[Akka gRPC](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/))
do not need to update immediately: because of our
@ref[binary compatibility](../common/binary-compatibility-rules.md) approach,
applications can take advantage of the latest version of Akka without having to
wait for intermediate libraries to update.

## Patch versions

When releasing a new patch version of Akka (e.g. 2.5.22), we typically don't
immediately bump the Akka version in satellite projects.

The reason for this is this will make it more low-friction for users to update
those satellite projects: say their project is on Akka 2.5.22 and
Akka Management 1.0.0, and we release Akka Management 1.0.1 (still built with
Akka 2.5.22) and Akka 2.5.23. They can safely update to Akka Management 1.0.1
without also updating to Akka 2.5.23, or update to Akka 2.5.23 without updating
to Akka Management 1.0.1.

> When there is any advantage for the satellite project to upgrade the Akka patch

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When there is reason for a satellite project to upgrade the Akka patch
```

Reviewer 3: ("Any advantage" sounds like we're looking for an excuse to upgrade.  "Reason" is more general.)

version, they are free to do so at any time.

## Minor versions

When releasing a new minor version of Akka (e.g. 2.6.0), satellite projects are
also usually not updated immediately, but as needed.

> When the satellite project does update to a new minor version of Akka, it will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a satellite project does update to a new minor version of Akka, it will
```

also increase its own minor version. The previous stable branch will enter the
usual end-of-support lifecycle for Lightbend customers, and only important
bugfixes will be backported to the previous version and released.

For example, when Akka 2.5.0 was released, Akka HTTP 10.0.x continued to depend
on Akka 2.4. When it was time to update Akka HTTP to Akka 2.5, 10.1.0 was
created, but 10.0.x was maintained for backward compatibility for a period of

> time according to Lightbend support policy.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
time according to Lightbend's support policy.
```
